# Topics : HTTP request in JavaScript
 
>#  CC Q1: write Ajax request using  plain javascript to get data form server

- when send() method is called ajax request will takes place 

<pre>
    const Http = new XMLHttpRequest();
    Http.open("GET", url);
    Http.send();

    Http.onreadystatechange = (e) => {
        console.log(Http.responseText)
    }
</pre>

>#  CC Q1: write JSC to make Ajax request using  plain javascript to get latest score form the serve and update in div with id scorebord once the button with id update score is clicked

 
<pre>

 document.getElementById('button').addEventListener('click',(e)=>{
    const Http = new XMLHttpRequest();
    Http.open("GET", "http://getLatestscore.url.com");
    Http.send();

    Http.onreadystatechange = (e) => {
         document.getElementById('scorebord').innerHTML = Http.responseText
    }
 });
</pre>

># write the solution to the above question using jquery library

- type: value takes GET or POST (default value is GET)
-
<pre>
 $(document).ready(function(){
    $("button").click(function(){
        $.ajax(
            {
                url:"<<http://urlofdata.com">>,
                success:function(data,status,xhr){
                    $("div").html(data);
                },
                error: function (jqXhr, textStatus, errorMessage) { // error callback 
                    $('p').append('Error: ' + errorMessage);
                }

           });
    });
});  
</pre>

## $.ajax is for advance request types for simple get requwat $.get() is used
    <pre>
        $("button").click(function(){
            $.get(<<http://urlofdata.com">>, function (data, textStatus, jqXHR) {
                $('div').append(data.firstName);
            });
        });
    <pre>

- more consizely written as  $.get(<<http://urlofdata.com">>,  (data, textStatus, jqXHR) 

<pre>
    $("button").click(()=>$.get("http://urlofdata.com",  (data) => $('div').append(data)));
</pre>


> # jQuery post() Method
The jQuery post() method sends asynchronous http POST request to the server to submit the data to the server and get the response

Syntax: $.post(url,[data],[callback],[type]);


<pre>
        $("button").click(function(){
            $.ajax({
                url: "http://urlofdata.com", 
                type: "POST",
                dataType: "json",
                contentType: "application/json; charset=utf-8",
                data: JSON.stringify({ name: 'value1', email: 'value2' }),
                success: function (data, textStatus, jqXHR) {
                     $('div').append(data.firstName);
                    // when call is sucessfull
                },
                error: function (err) {
                     // check the err for error details
                }
                }); // ajax call closing
         });// button click closing

</pre>











## Referance

https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/here-is-the-most-popular-ways-to-make-an-http-request-in-javascript-954ce8c95aaa/

- $.get(), $.getJSON() method allows you to send asynchronous http GET request to retrieve the data from the server without reloading whole page.
- $.get() can be used to retrieve any type of response from the server.
- $.getJSON() method is a short form method to retrieve JSON response from the server.
- $.getScript() sends asynchronous http GET request to retrieve the script files from the server and execute it.

Syntax:

- $.get(url,[data],[callback])
- $.getJSON(url,[data],[callback])
- $.getScript(url,[callback])


## Referance for $.ajax()



The **ajax() method** in jQuery is used to perform an AJAX request or asynchronous HTTP request.

**Syntax:**

$.ajax({name:value, name:value, ... })

**Parameters:** The list of possible values are given below:

*   **type:** It is used to specify the type of request.
*   **url:** It is used to specify the URL to send the request to.
*   **username:** It is used to specify a username to be used in an HTTP access authentication request.
*   **xhr:** It is used for creating the XMLHttpRequest object.
*   **async:** It’s default value is true. It indicates whether the request should be handled asynchronous or not.
*   **beforeSend(xhr):** It is a function which is to be run before the request is being sent.
*   **dataType:** The data type expected of the server response.
*   **error(xhr, status, error):** It is used to run if the request fails.
*   **global:** It’s default value is true. It is used to specify whether or not to trigger global AJAX event handles for the request.
*   **ifModified:** It’s default value is false. It is used to specify whether a request is only successful if the response has changed since the last request.
*   **jsonp:** A string overriding the callback function in a jsonp request.
*   **jsonpCallback:** It is used to specify a name for the callback function in a jsonp request.
*   **cache:** It’s default value is true. It indicates whether the browser should cache the requested pages.
*   **complete(xhr, status):** It is a function which is to be run when the request is being finished.
*   **contentType:** It’s default value is: “application/x-www-form-urlencoded” and it is used when data send to the server.
*   **context:** It is used to specify the “this” value for all AJAX related callback functions.
*   **data:** It is used to specify data to be sent to the server.
*   **dataFilter(data, type):** It is used to handle the raw response data of the XMLHttpRequest.
*   **password:** It is used to specify a password to be used in an HTTP access authentication request.
*   **processData:** It’s default value is true. It is used to specify whether or not data sent with the request should be transformed into a query string.
*   **scriptCharset:** It is used to specify the charset for the request.
*   **success(result, status, xhr):** It is to be run when the request succeeds.
*   **timeout:** It is the local timeout for the request. It measured in terms of milliseconds.
*   **traditional:** It is used to specify whether or not to use the traditional style of param serialization.
